[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> New research sheds light
on shared death experiences,
or SDEs.
When the living accompany
the dying on their journey
into what may lie beyond.
>> People, 51% of the time,
they report seeing the dying.
The SDE offers us an
invitation to see death
through this beautiful
lens of what's possible.
>> This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
While there has been a
good deal of attention
paid to the
near-death experience,
very little is known by the
general public about the shared
death experience.
A new research
survey is the first
of its kind to explore at length
this fascinating phenomenon.
William Peters is the founder
of the Shared Crossing Project,
which is dedicated
to educating people
about the transformative
experiences of the dying.
He is also the author of
the just published book,
"At Heaven's Door."
>> A shared death experience
occurs when somebody dies
and a loved one,
caregiver, bystander,
expresses that they feel like
they shared in the transition
of the dying from this human
life to what lies beyond
and into the initial
stages of the afterlife.
There are a variety of ways
to be an SDE experiencer.
You can be at bedside.
About 1/3 of our cases
are from experiencers
who are just at the bedside in
the room when someone is dying.
2/3 are remote.
That means they're not
even at the bedside
when someone's dying.
They're doing their
life somewhere,
oftentimes they're
sleeping, and they kind of
find themselves drawn in to an
experience, the shared death
experience, in which
they are experiencing
a variety of phenomena.
>> William has interviewed
hundreds of people about
their experiences and
estimates that up to a 1/4
of the world's population
may have had a shared death
experience.
Shared Crossing's recent
survey of SDE accounts
brings forth the
range of phenomena
common to the experience.
>> So the most common
phenomena would be this.
Alteration in the time
space continuum in the room.
So all of a sudden, if
you're with them or even
if you're remotely,
you get a little dizzy.
You realize your world is
getting a little warped.
Then you might feel a pressure,
a pull upon your chest.
If you are bedside, you might
see the spirit, soul spirit,
leaving the body.
It can look like a
steam, or smoke, or mist
coming off of a body.
You'll notice the light is
changing all around you.
People, 51% of the time,
they report seeing the dying.
They report seeing the
dying moving on a journey.
And there is often
communication between them,
but they are with this
loved one presumably,
because that what
is most of the time,
observing this, witnessing
this transition.
>> Some of the more fascinating
accounts involve multiple
people experiencing an
SDE around the same death.
>> This experience I'm going
to share is from Amelia.
Her son, Tom, was
diagnosed with cancer
at 10-years-old, terminal.
And when Tom finally died,
she was with him in his bed.
And she saw a beautiful,
beautiful lady of light appear.
And so she handed
her beloved son
of 13-years-old to this woman,
spirit being, who was majestic,
and pulled Tom with her.
And let Amelia
know, I've got it.
Right when this
experience was going on,
Amelia's sister, Charmaine,
walked into the room.
And Charmaine describes
seeing Tom rise out
of his bed and head upwards
into another dimension.
And she thought-- and she
felt all this loving kindness
around.
So they had two different SDE's,
but around the death of Tom,
but very validating.
>> Can science explain these
remarkable experiences?
William gives us his take.
>> There is some
energetic frequency.
We're all energetic.
And I think as somebody's
dying, their frequency
is changing as they
drop their human body
and begin to enter
into another dimension.
In this frequency,
you can be drawn
into it and your frequency
as a person will change.
I think there's a pull from
this field to the experiencer.
>> One particularly meaningful
aspect of the SDE is
the profound effect it
has on the experiencer.
>> From our research, the after
effects are highly beneficial
and profound.
They have a sense that their
deceased loved one is alive
and well in a
benevolent afterlife.
They have a sense
that they're going
to see their deceased loved
one again at some future point.
They have an alleviation in
their own anxiety and fear
of death.
>> William has developed methods
for training people to have
these experiences, which involve
connecting with a loved one
whose death is imminent and then
entering into a state of love,
receptivity, and acceptance.
To William, the implications
of researching and educating
people on the SDE
are far reaching.
>> Really what we're hoping is
that these experiences can be
embraced by our health care
systems by those of us who care
for people so that these
experiences can transform how
it is that we die.
The SDE offers us an
invitation to see death
through this beautiful
lens of what's possible.
A best death possible
for all of us
includes one with a
shared death experience,
for ourselves and
for our loved ones.
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.